README.md, before:

# dotfiles

These are my personal configuration files.

![tokyonight](tokyonight-screenshot.png)
[Tokyonight](https://github.com/sainnhe/gruvbox-material)

![gruvbox material](gruvbox-material-screenshot.png)
[Gruvbox Material](https://github.com/sainnhe/gruvbox-material)

## Installation

Make sure to install the [dependencies](#dependencies) listed below. You can
find a WIP package list in
[`pkglist.txt`](https://github.com/tnthi115/dotfiles/blob/master/pkglist.txt).

```sh
# On Arch
sudo pacman -S --needed - < pkglist.txt
```

**Warning**: The package names may vary or some may not exist depending on your
package manager. If so, just look up how to install the packages on your
system.

You will need [Git](https://git-scm.com/) and [GNU
Stow](https://www.gnu.org/software/stow/) to clone and symlink the dotfiles.

```sh
# On Arch
sudo pacman -S git stow

# On Ubuntu
sudo apt update
sudo apt-get install git stow

# On MacOS/OS X
brew install git stow
```

Clone into your `$HOME` or `~` directory:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/tnthi115/dotfiles.git
```

**Important:** Remove or backup your old config files before running `stow`.
For example:

```sh
mv ~/.zshrc ~/.zshrc.bak
```

Within `~/dotfiles/`, run `stow` to symlink everything or just select what you
want:

```sh
stow */ # Everything (the '/' grabs all directories and ignores files (e.g. README.md))
```

```sh
stow zsh # Just my zsh config
```

**Note:** `stow` doesn't assume `$HOME` (`~`) as the target directory, and instead
defaults to the parent of the current directory, which is why the above
commands work properly. If for some reason you want to clone to another
directory rather than your home directory (e.g. ~/repos/, ~/Git/, etc.), you
should run `stow` with the `--target` flag to specify your home directory:

```sh
stow --target=${HOME} zsh
```

## Dependencies

The following list is not comprehensive, but it includes what is important.

### Fonts

Install a [Nerd Font](https://www.nerdfonts.com/font-downloads). My current
favorites are [CaskaydiaCove Nerd
Font](https://github.com/ryanoasis/nerd-fonts/releases/download/v3.0.1/CascadiaCode.zip)
and [Hack Nerd
Font](https://github.com/ryanoasis/nerd-fonts/releases/download/v3.0.1/Hack.zip).

### Wallpapers

You can clone my wallpapers [repo](https://github.com/tnthi115/wallpapers) if
you want to use the same collections I've created.

### Neovim

I use [Lunarvim](https://www.lunarvim.org/) as a base config for [neovim](https://neovim.io/).

### Tmux

I use [tmux](https://github.com/tmux/tmux) for "sessionizing" different
projects so that I can quickly context switch without overhead and easily pick
up where I left off.

### Lazygit

[Lazygit](https://github.com/jesseduffield/lazygit) is super convenient and can
be launched within neovim, but learn how to use `git` on the command line
first! `Lazygit` should be used a time saving tool, not a crutch.
[Delta](https://github.com/dandavison/delta) makes diffs prettier.

### Kitty

[Kitty](https://sw.kovidgoyal.net/kitty/) supports ligatures, so I like it over
[alacritty](https://github.com/alacritty/alacritty) for now.
[Fzf](https://github.com/junegunn/fzf) is a must have as well.

### Zsh

I like to use [zsh](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/zsh) over
[bash](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/bash) because of two plugins:

- [zsh-autosuggestions](https://github.com/zsh-users/zsh-autosuggestions)
- [zsh-syntax-highlighting](https://github.com/zsh-users/zsh-syntax-highlighting)

I use [starship](https://starship.rs/) for my prompt. For some bling, I run
[neofetch](https://github.com/dylanaraps/neofetch) and [DT's
colorscripts](https://gitlab.com/dwt1/shell-color-scripts) in my `.zshrc`.

### Awesomewm

I use [awesomewm](https://awesomewm.org/) for my tiling window manager. It has
a built in application launcher, but you can use
[rofi](https://github.com/davatorium/rofi) universally.
[Compton](https://github.com/chjj/compton) is preinstalled on Ubuntu. Use
[picom](https://github.com/yshui/picom) on Arch.

### Firefox

Use the [Arkenfox user.js](https://github.com/arkenfox/user.js) to harden. [Librewolf](https://librewolf.net/)
and [Brave](https://brave.com/) are okay alternatives.

#### Extensions

- [Tokyo Night by Milav](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/tokyo-night-milav/?utm_source=addons.mozilla.org&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=search)
- [Gruvbox Material Dark by akay](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/gruvbox-material-dark/?utm_source=addons.mozilla.org&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=search)
- ublock origin in medium mode
- vimium
- firefox multi-account containers
- dark reader

## TODO

- [ ] add links
- [ ] flesh out dependencies more

Commit message:

Update README.md with Wezterm

README.md, after:

# dotfiles

These are my personal configuration files.

![tokyonight](tokyonight-screenshot.png)
[Tokyonight](https://github.com/sainnhe/gruvbox-material)

![gruvbox material](gruvbox-material-screenshot.png)
[Gruvbox Material](https://github.com/sainnhe/gruvbox-material)

## Installation

Make sure to install the [dependencies](#dependencies) listed below. You can
find a WIP package list in
[`pkglist.txt`](https://github.com/tnthi115/dotfiles/blob/master/pkglist.txt).

```sh
# On Arch
sudo pacman -S --needed - < pkglist.txt
```

**Warning**: The package names may vary or some may not exist depending on your
package manager. If so, just look up how to install the packages on your
system.

You will need [Git](https://git-scm.com/) and [GNU
Stow](https://www.gnu.org/software/stow/) to clone and symlink the dotfiles.

```sh
# On Arch
sudo pacman -S git stow

# On Ubuntu
sudo apt update
sudo apt-get install git stow

# On MacOS/OS X
brew install git stow
```

Clone into your `$HOME` or `~` directory:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/tnthi115/dotfiles.git
```

**Important:** Remove or backup your old config files before running `stow`.
For example:

```sh
mv ~/.zshrc ~/.zshrc.bak
```

Within `~/dotfiles/`, run `stow` to symlink everything or just select what you
want:

```sh
stow */ # Everything (the '/' grabs all directories and ignores files (e.g. README.md))
```

```sh
stow zsh # Just my zsh config
```

**Note:** `stow` doesn't assume `$HOME` (`~`) as the target directory, and instead
defaults to the parent of the current directory, which is why the above
commands work properly. If for some reason you want to clone to another
directory rather than your home directory (e.g. ~/repos/, ~/Git/, etc.), you
should run `stow` with the `--target` flag to specify your home directory:

```sh
stow --target=${HOME} zsh
```

## Dependencies

The following list is not comprehensive, but it includes what is important.

### Fonts

Install a [Nerd Font](https://www.nerdfonts.com/font-downloads). My current
favorites are [CaskaydiaCove Nerd
Font](https://github.com/ryanoasis/nerd-fonts/releases/download/v3.0.1/CascadiaCode.zip)
and [Hack Nerd
Font](https://github.com/ryanoasis/nerd-fonts/releases/download/v3.0.1/Hack.zip).

### Wallpapers

You can clone my wallpapers [repo](https://github.com/tnthi115/wallpapers) if
you want to use the same collections I've created.

### Neovim

I use [Lunarvim](https://www.lunarvim.org/) as a base config for [neovim](https://neovim.io/).

### Tmux

I use [tmux](https://github.com/tmux/tmux) for "sessionizing" different
projects so that I can quickly context switch without overhead and easily pick
up where I left off.

### Lazygit

[Lazygit](https://github.com/jesseduffield/lazygit) is super convenient and can
be launched within neovim, but learn how to use `git` on the command line
first! `Lazygit` should be used a time saving tool, not a crutch.
[Delta](https://github.com/dandavison/delta) makes diffs prettier.

### Kitty

[Kitty](https://sw.kovidgoyal.net/kitty/) supports ligatures, so I like it over
[alacritty](https://github.com/alacritty/alacritty) for now.
[Fzf](https://github.com/junegunn/fzf) is a must have as well.

### Wezterm

[Wezterm](https://github.com/wez/wezterm) is another GPU accelerated terminal
written in Rust (btw) that also supports ligatures and is configured in Lua
(like Neovim, which is fun). Currently, I'm actually liking this better than
Kitty because the newest versions of Kitty are giving me issues with fonts
rendering in all bold for whatever reason.

### Zsh

I like to use [zsh](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/zsh) over
[bash](https://wiki.archlinux.org/title/bash) because of two plugins:

- [zsh-autosuggestions](https://github.com/zsh-users/zsh-autosuggestions)
- [zsh-syntax-highlighting](https://github.com/zsh-users/zsh-syntax-highlighting)

I use [starship](https://starship.rs/) for my prompt. For some bling, I run
[neofetch](https://github.com/dylanaraps/neofetch) and [DT's
colorscripts](https://gitlab.com/dwt1/shell-color-scripts) in my `.zshrc`.

### Awesomewm

I use [awesomewm](https://awesomewm.org/) for my tiling window manager. It has
a built in application launcher, but you can use
[rofi](https://github.com/davatorium/rofi) universally.
[Compton](https://github.com/chjj/compton) is preinstalled on Ubuntu. Use
[picom](https://github.com/yshui/picom) on Arch.

### Firefox

Use the [Arkenfox user.js](https://github.com/arkenfox/user.js) to harden. [Librewolf](https://librewolf.net/)
and [Brave](https://brave.com/) are okay alternatives.

#### Extensions

- [Tokyo Night by Milav](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/tokyo-night-milav/?utm_source=addons.mozilla.org&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=search)
- [Gruvbox Material Dark by akay](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/gruvbox-material-dark/?utm_source=addons.mozilla.org&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=search)
- ublock origin in medium mode
- vimium
- firefox multi-account containers
- dark reader

## TODO

- [ ] add links
- [ ] flesh out dependencies more
