opencode/.config/opencode/command/serena.md, before:

---
description: Activate Serena MCP server and project in optimal configuration
agent: general
model: github-copilot/gpt-4.1
subtask: true
---

# Serena MCP Activation Command

Activates the Serena MCP server and project in the current directory with optimal configuration for development work.

## Activation Sequence

Execute the following Serena tools in order:

1. **Activate Project**: `activate_project "."` - Initialize Serena for current directory
2. **Check Onboarding**: `check_onboarding_performed` - Verify project setup status
3. **Run Onboarding** (if needed): `onboarding` - Complete project onboarding if not done
4. **Set Development Mode**: `switch_modes ["editing", "interactive"]` - Configure for active development
5. **Verify Configuration**: `get_current_config` - Confirm Serena is properly activated

## Expected Result

After successful activation:

- Serena MCP server is active and responsive
- Project is indexed and ready for development tasks
- Development modes are configured for editing and interactive work
- All Serena tools are available and functional

## Usage

Run this command at the start of any development session to ensure Serena is properly activated and configured for the current project.

Commit message:

docs(serena,opencode): clarify Serena manual context workflow and add sequential-thinking agent
Expand Serena command documentation to detail manual context and memory management
steps for OpenCode workflows. Add inline prompt comments and register the
sequential-thinking agent in opencode.jsonc to enable step-by-step reasoning
capabilities.

opencode/.config/opencode/command/serena.md, after:

---
description: Activate Serena MCP server and project for manual context optimization
agent: general
model: github-copilot/gpt-4.1
subtask: true
---

# Serena MCP Activation Command

Activates the Serena MCP server and project in the current directory for development work. Serena provides manual tools for context optimization, memory management, and session continuity in OpenCode workflows.

## Activation Sequence

1. **Activate Project**: `activate_project "."` — Initialize Serena for the current directory
2. **Check Onboarding**: `check_onboarding_performed` — Verify project setup status
3. **Run Onboarding** (if needed): `onboarding` — Complete project onboarding if not done
4. **Set Development Mode**: `switch_modes ["editing", "interactive"]` — Configure for active development
5. **Verify Configuration**: `get_current_config` — Confirm Serena is properly activated

## Manual Context & Memory Management

Use Serena's memory tools to:

- Save important discoveries, architectural decisions, or next steps (`write_memory`)
- Retrieve previous context or notes (`list_memories`, `read_memory`)
- Prepare for session handoff or context resets (`prepare_for_new_conversation`)

## When to Use

- At the start of a development session (activate Serena)
- Before context loss or long interruptions (save key information)
- When resuming work (retrieve relevant memories)
- To document important findings or decisions

## Expected Result

- Serena MCP server is active and responsive
- Project is indexed and ready for development tasks
- Development modes are set for editing and interactive work
- Serena memory tools are available for manual context management

## Usage

Run this command at the start of any development session, or whenever you need to optimize context or save/retrieve important information with Serena.
